---
layout: post
title: "Software Engineering at Tesla"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

I've been working at Tesla for 6 and 1/2 months now and am so glad I
took the job. Not because of the CEO or the stock, but because of the
mission, the culture, the work and the colleagues. I'm going to talk
about all of those things, but I also want to say right up front that
we're growing and we can't hire fast enough. If you can meet our high
standards, [please come work with
us](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6839595753132949504/).

<!--more-->

### The Mission

[Tesla's mission](https://www.tesla.com/about) is _to accelerate the
world's transition to sustainable energy_. This is not just lip
service and greenwashing, but is truly our motivation and driving
force. When Elon addresses the company, he always talks about the
mission, and this focus percolates down throughout the company.

I used to think that I had chosen the wrong career and that I could
never find a job where I could use my skills in a way that aligned
with my values and met the urgency of the moment. At Tesla I write
software to make it easier and faster to install and commission
residential and industrial battery systems. My work will help Tesla to
radically scale the deployment of these critical components of a
sustainable electrical grid. It is freaking awesome work and I hope I
can spend the rest of my career working on seriously important stuff
like this.

### The Culture

Tesla is an engineering organization through-and-through. And unlike
all of my previous jobs, the word "engineer" at Tesla is not a synonym
for "coder". We've got software engineers, firmware engineers,
electrical engineers, mechanical engineers, chemical engineers,
engineers who know how to make cars great, engineers that know how to
make car-building robots, engineers who know how to design
manufacturing lines and engineers who know how to build the
gigafactories that keep popping up around the world.

As engineers, we solve problems, and as an engineering organization,
Tesla has a problem solving culture. We find solutions and make
crisp decisions, but also pride ourselves on being able to pivot
quickly when (to choose a relevant recent example) global supply chain
issues mean that products need design and firmware and software
modifications in order to prevent he manufacturing lines from shutting
down.

We are nimble without (and I cannot stress this enough) being
*agile*â€“on my team, at least, we are trusted to get our work done
without the distraction of daily standups and weekly sprint planning
meetings. (This is just one manifestation of our rule, which comes
right from the top, against "corporate bullshit".)

Tesla is not a laid-back place. Working here is intense, in a focused,
driven, positive way. There are times when we work late or on weekends
before important release deadlines, but Tesla is no longer a startup
and we're not doing death marches and burning out employees. It is
understood and expected that people have lives that they go home to
when work is done.


### The Work

Most of my previous jobs have involved using software to process
information in one way or another, and one of the things that I find
fascination and satisfying about working at Tesla is that we
manufacture physical things (important things!) and I get to write
software for them. I work as a full-stack engineer using Go and
Typescript and React to create the software that is used by the
installers who install industrial and residential batteries. My team
is [looking for a frontend
specialist](https://www.tesla.com/careers/search/job/frontend-engineer-tesla-energy-device-software-83768)
and Tesla is growing so fast that there are always other teams that
are hiring software engineers as well.

There are lots of software engineering jobs on the vehicle side of
Tesla, but I don't know much about those. On the energy side of the
business, we have teams (I'm sure I've overlooking some) that work on:

- firmware for the microcontrollers in Powerwall, Megapack,
  Supercharger, Wall Connector and other devices

- software that runs on the CPUs in those same devices

- customer-facing and installer-facing web sites and apps along
  with their cloud backends.

- test infrastructure for energy hardware, firmware and software

- data pipelines for our massive amounts of telemetry

- backend systems to manage inventory, serial numbers, warehousing,
  installation jobs

- our Autobidder software that enables industrial battery owners to
  buy and sell electrical energy in real time.


### The Colleagues

Tesla maintains high standards in hiring. We look for colleagues who
take a first-principles approach to problem solving, who can analyze
problems by breaking them down, who can communicate effectively, and,
of course, who are excellent programmers. This is great because if you
work here, you know you're going to have high-caliber colleagues. I've
been impressed, across the board, by everyone I've worked with at
Tesla. And this is not limited to the engineers: our engineering
managers (who are engineers themselves) are great, and I've been
particularly impressed by our product managers who have deep knowledge
of and field experience with our products.

Everyone I've worked with has been professional, respectful, helpful
and kind. I think it is part of our no bullshit culture that we don't
seem to have 10x primadonnas or slackers here. Employees aren't in
competition with each other and there is not backstabbing and politics
going on behind the scenes.

### Join Us

Tesla is a great mission-driven place to work. [Please come accelerate
the world's transition to sustainable energy with
us.](https://www.tesla.com/careers)
